The instructions in this file ONLY apply if the PostScript support package
has been separated from the DWB package.

-------------
Major Changes
-------------

See the VERSION file.

-------------------
Tuning The Makefile
-------------------

Source files, man pages, and low level makefiles can all be updated
to reflect settings in postscript.mk in one simple step (described
later). In most cases you only need to edit file postscript.mk.

First save a copy of file postscript.mk. Then adjust the following
definitions in file postscript.mk:

  SYSTEM    best match for your version of Unix. Current choices for
	    SYSTEM are:

			SYSV	- System V
			V9	- Ninth Edition
			BSD4_2	- Berkeley (eg. Sun)

	    Controls conditional compilation in a few places.

  GROUP	    group assigned to all installed files

  OWNER	    owner of everything that's installed

  BINDIR    dpost and picpack go here. All other programs go in POSTBIN.
	    BINDIR must already exist - it will not be created during an
	    install.

  HOSTDIR   hostresident font directory for PostScript printers. Only
	    used in the font download program.

  FONTDIR   width table directory - for troff and most postprocessors

  MAN1DIR   command manpages. A command and its manpage are installed
	    together - there's no easy way to avoid it. Setting MAN1DIR
	    to an existing temporary directory (e.g. /tmp) means an
	    install will work but manpages won't go anywhere permanent.
	    MAN1DIR must already exist - it will not be created during
	    an install.

  POSTBIN   where most PostScript support programs go. dpost and picpack
	    the exceptions.

  POSTLIB   prologues and miscellaneous PostScript files. Primarily for
	    the programs that live in POSTBIN.

  CFLGS	    common compiler options - used to build CFLAGS in the low
	    level makefiles. CLFGS and LDFLGS are best set on the make
	    command line.

  LDFLGS    common link editor options - used to build LDFLAGS in the
	    low level makefiles. LDFLGS and CFLGS are best set on the
	    make command line.

  DKHOST    set it to TRUE to compile the DKHOST Datakit support code
	    in postio. Temporarily resets SYSTEM to SYSV if DKHOST is
	    TRUE and SYSTEM is BSD4_2. Ignored if SYSTEM is not SYSV
	    or BSD4_2.

  DKSTREAMS enables streams based DKHOST support in postio when DKHOST
	    is TRUE and SYSTEM is SYSV or BSD4_2. Choices are TRUE,
	    FALSE, or a stream module name (e.g. dknetty or dkty). TRUE
	    selects dknetty. Newer systems may expect dkty.

  ROUNDPAGE must only be set to TRUE or FALSE. TRUE means PostScript
	    translators include code that maps clipping path dimensions
	    into known paper sizes.

  TARGETS   the default list of what's built by make. Each target must
	    be the name of a source directory. A target that names a
	    non-existent source directory is ignored. Setting TARGETS
	    on the make command line overrides the default list.

-------------------
Updating The Source
-------------------

Whenever file postscript.mk changes you should update source files,
man pages, and low level makefiles by typing,

	make -f postscript.mk changes

------------------------
More System Dependencies
------------------------

The package has been compiled and tested on System V and Ninth Edition
Unix Systems and on Sun workstations. Most differences are handled via
the SYSTEM definition in postscript.mk. Problems that remain are:

  SYSV - System V
    Use the native compiler if you're on an internal System V UTS
    machine.

  V9 - Ninth or Tenth Edition
    chown is in /etc and chgrp no longer exists - it's been folded into
    the chown command. You may be forced to build a simple chgrp shell
    script (put it in your bin) that calls chown. If you're not superuser
    set OWNER to your login name and GROUP to your group id.

  BSD4_2 - Sun Workstations
    Use the Bourne shell. chown is should be in /usr/etc. Add /usr/etc
    to your PATH and export PATH. If you're not superuser set OWNER to
    your login name and GROUP to your group id.

----------------------
Installing The Package
----------------------

To build (but not install) the default package (i.e. everything named by
TARGETS in postscript.mk) type,

	make -f postscript.mk all

To build and install the package type,

	make -f postscript.mk all install

After the package is installed use,

	make -f postscript.mk clobber

to delete binary files and compiled programs from the source directories.

To select part of the package define TARGETS on the command line. For
example,

	make -f postscript.mk TARGETS="dpost devpost" all install

builds and installs dpost and the PostScript font tables. Quotes hide
white space from the shell.

